>> Jon: Cool.
So there's also ARIA Roles, and so
basically what's going on,
I think these are actually part of HTML
more than they're part of the ARIA spec.
But roles are kinda back to what we
very first started on with a clue into
some of the functionality or interactivity
of a thing, what this thing does.
So a common thread with accessibility
which I think Jack
mentioned in the beginning.
People call it div soup, but Ilike
the idea of a lot of us learn HTML and
divs make a really nice display block
generic element so we use it for
absolutely everything.
But even if you're gonna continue using
it, you can use a lot of these roles to
describe like,
this thing is like a navigation item, or
this thing is a section, or
this thing is, so there's a list of them.
List items, list document groupings,
all these different things you can do.
And they're kinda nice to experiment with
has you're listening to the screen or
either read your page, and
then you add some functionality to it.
And it'll sound a lot nicer.
Again, so a lot of times now what used to
be done with roles can now be done with
native HTML5 elements.
But the roles still exist, and even
though it seems a little bit redundant,
sometimes it's nice to do both to
have a fall back for older browsers.
So, the cool thing with HTML5 elements
is that they degrade really nicely.
So if you have a browser that
knows what an article is, great.
Otherwise it'll just degrade into a div.
So even though it seems redundant for
a newer browser to have
article role article.
It's nice because an older browser will
just turn it into div role article, so
you still have all that context for
screen readers.
And that becomes less and
less of a problem as the browsers evolve,
because HTML5 is pretty well supported
now but just something to keep in mind.
>> Speaker 2: The other concern
is not just the browsers but
there are different types of assistive
technology that many of those users
are slow to upgrade,
either because it's costly or
even the manufacturers are slow to
upgrade that hardware or software.
And so that's another instance where
it becomes important to add that role.
>> Jon: Yeah, so like even if Jaws maybe
supports all these nice HTML5 things,
there are a lot of people on
very older versions of it.
Which this would still be
a nice edition to have.
Yeah, I always recommend doing it Yeah.
I do find a lot for whatever the reason,
it's lot of people using s system
technology, are slower to update then,
than people not using a sys technology.
I have to imagine a lot of this,
it's difficulty updating as well,
like getting a brand-new version
of everything when you do't have,
we only makes every single
task that much more difficult.
But I do think probably
cost is a big part of it,
especially with some of
the more expensive pieces.
So yeah, I would always recommend doing
both the HTML5 element and the role.